# Note: This is a local copy of the document for AI consumption only. Humans should follow the link below to the actual document.

https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub

---

Ham Radio  Minecraft Mod

Lucas - W1BTR

WB1GOF PART of Westford | YARC

Major Revision 2

08/09/2022

> "This is great! I've been advocating gamification for several years now. I'm convinced this will be part of ham radio's future. We ignore it at our peril ..." - Pacific Director Kristen McIntyre, K6WX

Table of Contents

If you are viewing this document as an organization looking to give a
grant to this project, We recommend starting with:

- [Introduction](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.czcg7qdovljn)
- [An Untouched
  Resource](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.wmnhed4rffwa)
- [Why the Mod Would be
  Beneficial](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.k8nsod4p74g1)
- [Limitations of the
  Mod](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.mez0c7rptw3n)
- [Community
  Feedback](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.rb7vgchz1me)
- [Answering
  Concerns](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.w9mi54c7cplc)
- [Development
  Timeline](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.29vfmfzak97z)
- [Completed
  Work](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.29vfmfzak97z)
- [Funding and
  Payment](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.k1ldcwp3j26k)

TABLE OF CONTENTS:

[Introduction](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.czcg7qdovljn)

[Minecraft](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.au51mny0sx6)

[Ham
Radio](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.w5gkax20b823)

[An Untouched
Resource](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.wmnhed4rffwa)

[Why the Mod Would be
Beneficial](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.k8nsod4p74g1)

[Awareness](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.8b4c4gsb5lfb)

[Lowering the Barrier to
Entry](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.nju16rw83yf)

[Teaching the
Fundamentals](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.9dknaz9aygq8)

[Limitations of the
Mod](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.mez0c7rptw3n)

[Real-Life
Modeling](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.sdk0ko34vz1f)

[Bringing in Uninterested
Parties](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.l7zwdeunc53b)

[Answering
Concerns](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.w9mi54c7cplc)

["Will people just play Minecraft instead of actually getting into ham
radio?"](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.7cbja4lqiu9b)

["Is this type of mod even
possible?"](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.vwe5v5kw13er)

["Millions of players breed cows and grow crops in Minecraft but how
many of them get into farming? Would a ham radio mod actually bring
people into the
hobby?"](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.36bqjkm94n5e)

[Community
Feedback](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.rb7vgchz1me)

[Posting to
Reddit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.b44sfq5fee0p)

[Some Reddit
Feedback](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.td3psvze2bwi)

[Features
Description](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.bi488dwh2ovj)

[Components & Base
Recipes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.c6913nenfqo2)

[Radios](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.unp8ai8oi8tc)

[Antennas & Antenna
Components](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.9hue73rkt9)

[Events &
Functionality](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.rxsi9gv9oq4u)

[Commands](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.xhaffsdrozci)

[Admin
commands:](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.smbzohi7aby1)

[Player
Commands:](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.2top7jvxljau)

[Config](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.jvhheqbpnyep)

[Design, Style, &
Sound](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.u43sinc1kqvc)

[Vintage & Modern
Radios](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.4loywp5o7ogg)

[Design
Inspiration](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.qf97di1l7222)

[Existing Mod
Inspiration](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.jpz5605o9i7y)

[Vintage Radio
Inspiration](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.nj4myklqe9zq)

[Vintage Radio Design
Elements](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.7quvtiuj62x1)

[Radio
Sizing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.t0iu7becrv5r)

[Misc Block
Design:](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.808ktx4idfo6)

[UI
Design](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.zfrngsjf94wv)

[Radio
Interface](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.aj1gusansa7n)

[Repeater
Interface](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.bsx31fut257)

[Solar Weather
Station](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.p261gt43mdse)

[Digital Interface
(TNC)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.mrqjvtbkf3dp)

[Completed
Work](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.29vfmfzak97z)

[Development
Timeline](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.9flwshpw78su)

[Primary
Development:](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.i63010pncxat)

[Secondary
Development:](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.azsdqe2k348i)

[Future
Development](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.db839yfdmaq6)

[Funding and
Payment](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.k1ldcwp3j26k)

[Cost
Analysis](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.ge2z3a6hoxek)

[Funding](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.d1bwwk9yfnm6)

[Payment](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.v67g0ftzozp9)

# Introduction

## Minecraft

Wikipedia's dynamic list of the best-selling video games in all of
history places Minecraft at the top of the list. The total sales have
reached over 238 million, almost double the runner up: GTAV.

Minecraft is a sandbox game, which means you decide what you do instead
of following a story. In this game, players start in a randomly
generated and virtually infinite world with nothing but their bare
hands. Over time, they use the world around them to craft tools, armor,
and other blocks to build everything from simple houses to complicated
machines one block at a time.

Because of the flexibility in what you can do with the game, it is
insanely popular. Almost everyone can find something fun to do. Young
kids can build simple buildings and hunt down rare resources and have a
blast! Full adults like myself (depending on the day) can take the time
to build complicated sorting systems and world automation. It\'s totally
scalable. Some talented builders have even built fully functioning
computers in Minecraft.

![](Pictures/10000000000001C40000012AB2EFB143.jpg)

Ben Craddock, 21, uses Minecraft to build functional computers and
computer components, testing them before making them in real life.

Minecraft also has support for "mods". These are special modifiers
written in Java that are added to the game to change how it works. Mods
can change the looks of blocks or creatures, add animals, tools, or
blocks, and even add or change advanced features. There are mods that
add nuclear power and teach players about the basics of nuclear physics.
There are post-apocalyptic mods. There\'s a mod called \"Create\" which
adds machinery and rotational power. There are over 100,000 mods made by
the community!

![](Pictures/10000000000001E70000013A55C11826.jpg)

Advanced machinery assembly line created thanks to special blocks and
features added from the Create mod.

People can run their own Minecraft server with relative ease. These
servers each have their own "world" that players can join and build on,
and they can be set up with custom rules and mods. There are more than
480,000 active servers.

Because of the open nature of the game and the moddability, it\'s a
great source of education. There\'s even a Minecraft Education Edition
that is sold to schools across America and beyond.

## Ham Radio

"Amateur Radio (ham radio) is a popular hobby and service that brings
people, electronics, and communication together. People use ham radio to
talk across town, around the world, or even into space, all without the
Internet or cell phones. It\'s fun, social, educational, and can be a
lifeline during times of need.

You can set up a ham radio station anywhere! In a field\...

![](Pictures/1000000000000164000000E793A4EF84.jpg)

...at a club station ....

![](Pictures/100000000000016B000000F3482B3290.jpg)

 ...or at home.

![](Pictures/1000000000000179000000E3B978D1A8.jpg)

Although Amateur Radio operators get involved for many reasons, they all
have in common a basic knowledge of radio technology and operating
principles and pass an examination for the FCC license to operate on
radio frequencies known as the \"Amateur Bands.\" These bands are radio
frequencies allocated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for
use by ham radio operators."

- ARRL:
[http://www.arrl.org/what-is-ham-radio](http://www.arrl.org/what-is-ham-radio)

# An Untouched Resource

"I was updating a server that I run for a couple of friends that we use
now and then, and I was appalled to find that there were no mods for ham
radio out there! Not even one result! Heck, there are mods that add
twerking and nuclear power, but no ham radio?"

Minecraft is an untapped resource of education. Millions of players are
interested in tinkering, building, and exploring. Why not make a mod to
add interest to ham radio?

Imagine a mod with fully featured ham radio support. Local handhelds and
repeaters for local talk, HF rigs, and long-wire antennas extend your
range. Learn about different antenna types, baluns, and coax runs. Learn
about power output and propagation!

There are already mods out there that add proximity-based voice chat, so
it\'s 100% possible. Mod development is relatively affordable. A mod
like this could be done with grants from the ARRL or another interested
party. Development is expensive, but we can scale our approach based on
what we can raise, and possibly tap into the FOSS community for some of
it.

# Why the Mod Would be Beneficial

## Awareness

The Ham Radio Hobby is considered a niche hobby. While the userbase of
licensed hams grows, the count of active, on-the-air operators continues
to slowly shrink. I believe one major issue is that of awareness.

I knew about ham radio through Hollywood's portrayal of it, but I had no
actual experience with the hobby. CB radio seemed interesting but weak
and full of impolite and unregulated users. To put it simply, I didn't
know that it even was a hobby. I was unaware of how accessible,
flexible, diverse, and... well, fun ham radio was! Nobody around me knew
what it was either.

Even once I got my license, not even one of my friends knew what ham
radio was until I told them. I think this mod could be a great way to
bring the hobby exposure to the younger generations!

## Lowering the Barrier to Entry

I know a few people who are interested in the hobby but are overwhelmed
by what's required to get started. To those of us who have done it, it
might seem trivial, but for the folks that are coming in knowing nothing
about radio it all seems very alien and challenging. It's not until you
take that leap of faith and dive in that you realize how easy it is.

A Minecraft mod would allow potential hams to learn about the hobby and
how it works in a safe and fun environment. Players can learn about
resonance and antenna types. They can learn about propagation and how
different radios work.

Players can mess around without worrying about breaking real-life
equipment, or worse, laws. By giving players a general idea of what to
expect, it can make the studying and exam seem far less intimidating.

## Teaching the Fundamentals

A ham radio mod would also be a great way to teach the fundamentals of
ham radio to new hams or curious unlicensed players. With the mod,
players could learn about the different types of antennas, the best time
and distance for different bands, how baluns and chokes work, and more!

# Limitations of the Mod

## Real-Life Modeling

Due to the limitations of realistic funding and what is possible in
Minecraft, the mod could not act as an area to test antenna ideas or
setups. The emulation the mod will provide will be incomplete and
heavily simplified.

## Bringing in Uninterested Parties

While the mod might be fun to play around with for many Minecraft
players, a significant portion of the player base will likely be
uninterested in ever become a real ham operator. This mod's objective is
to raise interest in those who already enjoy tinkering and learning
about electronics and communication. Luckily, there is a significant
portion of the Minecraft player base that is interested in such things,
like the many people who enjoy making advanced Redstone contraptions to
sort items or open secret doors

# Answering Concerns

## "Will people just play Minecraft instead of actually getting into ham radio?"

I don't believe so. First, the mod can't connect you with random people.
The mod will connect existing friends on their own servers, probably
with small groups of people. Second, there are many aspects of ham radio
that the mod can never really touch, like digital communication, SSTV,
emergency communications, special event stations, and contests. These
huge aspects of the hobby will certainly keep people interested in the
real thing!

## "Is this type of mod even possible?"

Certainly. I've discussed it with numerous mod developers and hams and
they've agreed that it is more than doable.

## "Millions of players breed cows and grow crops in Minecraft but how many of them get into farming? Would a ham radio mod actually bring people into the hobby?"

While some players might enjoy the mod but not get into the real thing,
I think ham radio is more interesting than agriculture and farming, at
least to many Minecraft players. To answer this in more detail, I want
to highlight some community answers to this question:

"I\'m a teenager who loves to play Minecraft, and Minecraft mods have
absolutely influenced my education. For example, there was a great
Minecraft mod called \"Forestry\" which has absolutely gotten people
interested in beekeeping and agriculture, because they can do it
in-game.

I think it is in a special position of giving people a chance to play
around with an interesting concept, especially if they wouldn\'t
encounter it in real life. Minecraft mods combine a relevance to young
player\'s interests with ease of access which make them a good
opportunity to show off what is cool about a niche hobby. This is
exactly why Minecraft has taken to adding animals like Turtles, Pandas,
and Bees to raise awareness of their critical position.

TL;DR: I think that exposure to ham radio in Minecraft could be very
effective in getting kids interested in, or at least aware of, a hobby
that is quite frankly failing to stay relevant in the eyes of much of
Gen Z."

-u/BumphyRedixler

"I interview, hire, and work with many young software and electrical
engineers. I make a point to ask them if Minecraft has played a role in
their interests and the development of their education and occupation
choices. So far, there has been almost a 100% affirmative response from
males younger than 25 years old. Meaning, before they were engineers,
before they did software or electronics for school or a living, they
were tinkering with related concepts in Minecraft. Many graduate to
Arduino tinkering (especially the electrical engineers). But all had an
initial connection and exposure via Minecraft. Typically, their
Minecraft connection transcended basic gameplay, and ventured into mod
usage, and mod creation (or at least mod manipulation)."

-u/lowMicGain

# Community Feedback

## Posting to Reddit

A draft of this project was proposed to Reddit and there was some
significant feedback from the r/AmateurRadio subreddit. Here are some of
the stats:

![](Pictures/1000000100000289000000C430C3177F.png)

* The idea received over 16,000 views on the r/AmateurRadio subreddit and was the top post for the day it was posted.
* The post received a 93% upvote rate
* The post received 62 comments, a wide majority of which were positive
* The post received a Gold and Silver Reddit Award given by the community

The post can be found at this
URL: [https://www.reddit.com/r/amateurradio/comments/w8owu8/minecraft_an_untapped_education_resource_for_ham/](https://www.reddit.com/r/amateurradio/comments/w8owu8/minecraft_an_untapped_education_resource_for_ham/)

## Some Reddit Feedback

Taken from comments of the Reddit post

* "This is fantastic. I've seen a couple of work friends with
kids who are already involved and sit around when dad fires up his ham
to talk. A Minecraft mod would be a great starting point and a somewhat
"primitive" feature for the game to have. I mean, hell, red stone is
some kind of alien technology with the way it works. Haha. RF would be
great mod." -u/movewithwind

* "Really cool idea, and I love the energy and thought put into
it. I play video games some, but haven't tried Minecraft, but have been
interested for a while. I look forward to this getting some traction."
-KD5EDY/AG

* "We have a Minecraft server on our AREDN mesh network. We
would certainly look at adding a mod that involved ham radio if it was
ever created. Our server runs forge." -u/1980techguy

* "This would have totally gotten me into the hobby sooner. Might
get me back into Minecraft too\..." -u/AnythingButDasani

* "Yeah! This sounds great! I\'d really want to look into 3D
modelling, because I think that making massive dish antennas and
suchlike could be really cool! Especially if they start as multiblock
structures. Seeing what Create has accomplished with 3D models that fit
into the Minecraft aesthetic, I think that any mods that could give
radio a similarly appealing aesthetic would be received very well, and
likely to gain interest from other communities. Also, the ability to
make some type of radio out of pigs would be funny, as a literal ham
radio." -u/BimphyRedixler

* Anecdotally, out of my 2 children, one is obsessed with
fighting games in Minecraft, and the other (like myself) is a
builder/explorer/modder. But both are obsessed with Minecraft and have
been for some time (it doesn\'t get boring for them).

Also anecdotally, I interview, hire, and work with many young software
and electrical engineers. I make a point to ask them if Minecraft has
played a role in their interests and the development of their education
and occupation choices. So far, there has been almost a 100% affirmative
response from males younger than 25 years old. Meaning, before they were
engineers, before they did software or electronics for school or a
living, they were tinkering with related concepts in Minecraft. Many
graduate to Arduino tinkering (especially the electrical engineers). But
all had an initial connection and exposure via Minecraft. Typically,
their Minecraft connection transcended basic gameplay, and ventured into
mod usage, and mod creation (or at least mod manipulation).

I think the idea has merit.

I am a person that spent 10,000s of hours developing and flying
helicopter simulation add-ons for Microsoft Flight Simulator using
at-home realistic flight controls, and then went and flew a real
helicopter (in all phases of flight, including hovering in someone\'s
driveway, and radio work) on my very first flight. So I have personal
experience in how effective simulation/gaming can lead to transition of
skills to non simulated tasks. Occasionally, well known helicopter
companies would pay me for my work because they recognized the potential
of it as well." -u/lowMicGain

* "Until I read this post I had no idea I needed this in my
life. Guess I should start getting proficient in my JavaScript\..."
-u/Saberhawk09

* "There are almost certainly limitless integrations you could
make with other mods as well. Just off the top of my head I\'m thinking
Galactic Craft for satellites (And realistic crafting material costs!),
Buildcraft / Ender IO for telemetry integration (I.E getting a status
read out of your machines without connecting them with wires).

It\'s been a while since I seriously sat down and played Minecraft but
man you got me thinking now\... I sent this to our new local club of
which I am a trustee.

Well damn now you got me thinking. The amount of integrations that could
bejust the amount of integrations that could be done with mods that
generate electrical power alone would be insane. I said it in a
different post, but again I don\'t think you would want to start from
the ground up with a lot of this stuff. Stuff like ores and electrical
energy mechanics could be cloned from other mods as most of them are
open source. (With the author\'s permission of course)...

...Geez, much like ham radio in real life the integrations would
potentially just be endless with all the different mods you could also
add to your game. I am friends with ModernHam (KN4MKB) on YouTube and I
am a mod in his Discord server. Once he gets back from his deployment I
could pass this idea to him if you want to get a bit more publicity.
Assuming he also likes the idea (and comes back to YT) that might help
spread the word." -u/Saberhawk09

* "I think that exposure to ham radio in Minecraft could be very
effective in getting kids interested in, or at least aware of, a hobby
that is quite frankly failing to stay relevant in the eyes of much of
Gen Z." -u/BimphyRedixler

* "This is a brilliant idea! They recently added copper to the
game, but the only practical use for it is as a lightning rod,
everything else is cosmetic. I could see refining silicon from sand, and
copper, and the odd gem, to make circuit modules, maybe different types
of modules then get combined into different devices. With some kind of
redstone battery of course haha." -u/Thalass

* "Maybe create a numbers station that players can decode for
achievements, or let players create their own numbers station to send
secret messages to only their team, etc. And obviously cw messages. I\'d
find that fun with or without radios. :) Great idea\..."
-u/Intelligent-Foot-808

## New England Division ARRL

[https://nediv.arrl.org/2022/10/20/ham-radio-minecraft-mod-project-gaining-momentum/](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://nediv.arrl.org/2022/10/20/ham-radio-minecraft-mod-project-gaining-momentum/&sa=D&source=editors&ust=1758319322679565&usg=AOvVaw2s3y0jg7_P-Aga8bQeKWr0)

![](Pictures/1000000100000300000001FD8C76C6C2.png)

ARRL New England Vice Director Phil Temples, K9HI, shared information
about the project to other ARRL Board members. Pacific Division
Director Kristen McIntyre, K6WX, remarked, "This is great! I've been
advocating gamification for several years now. I'm convinced this will
be part of ham radio's future. We ignore it at our peril \[...\]."

# Features Description

The mod will be written in Forge for Minecraft 1.18.2. It will rely on
and require the following mods:

- RF

It will have compatibility with the API for the following mods:

- Curios API (placing items on chest or belt)
- JEI 9.x

The features of this mod will be described in 6 sections. These are
Components & Recipes, Radios, Antennas, Bands, Propagation, Events &
Functionality, and Structures.

If a feature or recipe has a (1) next to it, it is part of the primary
development stack. If it has a (2) next to it, it is part of the
secondary development stack.

## Components & Base Recipes

NOTE: The recipes themselves are all part of the secondary development
stack.

- Wire (1): Wire is used to create many radio components as well as for
  making antennas. Wire can also be used as an RF wire source. Wire,
  when placed, will appear a dark silver. The recipe to create 9 wire
  will be as follows:
  - 9 wire can make one spool of wire to save space (which can be crafted
    into 9 wire). Wire can also be made with copper ingots. Wire can be
    placed and will stay on-top of blocks like Redstone but with a
    different texture.
  - If plain placed wire interacts with water while powered, the water
    will be electrified, damaging any entity in the water within 6 blocks
    of it with 3 hearts of damage, and uses as much power as it can be
    given. If the wire is powered by batteries when it interacts with
    water, the batteries will have a low chance of being ignited and
    exploding.

![](Pictures/1000000100000075000000769168FE55.png)

- Waterproof Wire: Waterproof wire can be placed and can carry power
  just as standard wire can, but it does not interact with water. It
  cannot be used in recipes. The recipe will use 3 wire and 3 kelp as
  follows:
  - This will produce 3x waterproof wire.

![](Pictures/100000010000007600000076F1E1B6EE.png){width="1.2291in"
  height="1.2291in"}

- Radio Crystal: Radio crystals are the heart of every radio. The recipe
  will use a diamond, amethyst crystals, and a wire:

![](Pictures/1000000100000076000000758BA0278B.png)

- Radio Speaker: Radio speakers are required for all radios with receive
  functionality. The recipe will use note blocks, iron, and wire as
  follows:

![](Pictures/100000010000007800000079055F5F06.png)

- Microphone: Microphones are used in every transmitting radio in some
  way or another. The recipe for a microphone uses an amethyst crystal,
  iron, and wire as follows:

![](Pictures/10000001000000720000007285BABB6F.png)

- Hand Mic: Hand Mics are used in many non-handheld radio recipes. The
  recipe uses a microphone, a polished Blackstone button, wire, and a
  plank of any wood.

![](Pictures/100000010000007700000076C31BE6E3.png)

- HF Circuit Board: The HF Circuit Board is a component used to make HF
  radios. Its recipe uses 3 sand, 1 wire, 1 nether quartz, and 3 iron as
  follows:

![](Pictures/10000001000001E4000001007D4292DA.png)

- Small Alkaline Battery: Handheld batteries are used by VHF handheld
  radios and QRP transceivers. Handheld batteries will use glass, thick
  potion, iron, and wire as follows:
  - Small Alkaline batteries can be used on handheld radios by dragging
    them on top of a radio with no battery. If the radio has a battery
    already, it will swap for a battery with whatever charge the radio had
    previously.
  - Alkaline Batteries cannot be recharged, and will be consumed once
    empty.

![](Pictures/100000010000007D0000007D85D6378F.png)

- Ferrite Core: Ferrite cores are used in the recipes for transformers,
  which are used with antennas. The recipe for the ferrite core is as
  follows:

![](Pictures/100000010000007D0000007E982455A7.png)

- Solar Panel: Solar panels are a power source that can integrate with
  the Redstone Flux API. How much power they generate depends on the
  time of day. At peak, 6 panels should be able to power any radio.
  During the day, one panel should be able to power a QRP radio. It can
  also charge batteries. The recipe for a solar panel will use kelp,
  iron, and wire as follows:

![](Pictures/100000010000007F0000007C4980820E.png)

- Coaxial Core and Coax Wire: Coax wire is used to connect radios to
  antennas. The coax wire requires Coaxial core in its recipe. The
  recipe for coaxial core uses 6 kelp and 3 iron ingots as follows:
  - Then, the coaxial core is used to make coax wire in this recipe,
    utilizing 3 coaxial core (represented with barrier blocks), 3 wire,
    and 3 kelp as follows:
  - Coaxial Wire can travel up one block at a time.

- ![This will produce 3x coaxial core](Pictures/100000010000008400000085926A2EDF.png) 

- ![This will produce 3 Coax Wire](Pictures/100000010000008500000087B8CF4883.png) 


- Large Battery: Large batteries are placeable blocks that are connected
  to radios to power them. They will use the RF API. The have a charge
  to them, which is used when a radio is powered on. Large batteries can
  be combined to combine their capacity and can be charged with a power
  source (such as solar panels attached via wire). The recipe for large
  batteries will use 6 stripped logs and 3 small rechargeable batteries
  (represented with barrier blocks) as follows:
  - When a radio is receiving, a battery should last about 2 in-game days.
    On transmit, a battery should last ¼ an in-game day on a full power
    radio, and 1 in-game day for QRP radios.
  - Batteries have TNT-like properties, where they will explode if set on
    fire. They are not ignited with a Redstone signal, however. Around ¼
    of their explosions also produce fire.

![](Pictures/1000000100000081000000843EFEE1D8.png)

- Antenna Isolator/Connector: Antenna Isolator/Connectors are used to
  attach antenna wire to a block. These can be placed on the sides or
  bottoms of blocks and will allow the player to place antenna wire on
  that connector. The player can then run coaxial wire to their rig.
- Antenna Wire (1): Antenna wire is wire that can be placed and used as
  an antenna. Instead of placing on a block (like normal wire), it is
  suspended in the center of the block. If possible, for aesthetic
  purposes, the more pieces there are in a single, unsupported run, the
  more the wire will sag, giving it a suspended weighted appearance.
  - Antenna wire will be slightly thicker than normal wire and will be a
    dark brown/black. To attach to blocks, one will need to use an
    Isolator/Connector. The recipe for antenna wire will use wire and kelp
    as follows:

![](Pictures/100000010000008500000089AC950B37.png)

- Solar Weather Station (2): The solar weather station is a placeable
  block that tells the player what the solar weather is. It will also
  allow the player to enter in two sets of coordinates, and it will tell
  the player what band is best to use during average conditions. The
  solar weather station's recipe uses 2 antenna poles, 2 tinted glass, 1
  radio crystal, 2 wire, 1 lightning rod, and 1 iron ingot as follows:
  - The station consumes 1 paper each time a player generates a "report."
  - The station can be fed paper with a hopper, and can be activated with
    a redstone signal.
  - The solar weather station will also output a different redstone signal
    into a comparator depending on the current band condition (1-6).

![](Pictures/10000001000001E400000100231595F9.png)

- Digital Interface (TNC) (2): The Digital Interface allows a ham radio
  to perform advanced tasks such as sending maps, paper, and books,
  sending
  [APRS](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.mrqjvtbkf3dp) messages,
  and more (see [Events &
  Functionality](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.rxsi9gv9oq4u) Digital
  Interface section for more details and a description of APRS). The
  recipe for the Digital Interface uses 3 wire, a microphone, a speaker,
  and a diamond as follows:

![](Pictures/10000001000001E4000001006BD5C661.png)

## Radios

- VHF Handheld (1): The VHF Handheld will represent handheld radios that
  function on the "2-meter band." These radios have limited
  line-of-sight range and are not subject to propagation. Read more
  about these in the "Events & Functionality" section. The recipe for
  the handheld VHF radio will take one lightning rod, 2 iron, one stone
  button, one radio crystal, one speaker, two wire, and one
  microphone as follows:
  - Note: All non-vanilla textures are placeholders.
  - The VHF handheld will take handheld batteries, which will be required
    to use the radio. The batteries will drain differently depending on
    use. Here is a reference list for a developer:
      - While idle (radio is on), a battery should last 12 in-game days.
      - While receiving (transmission is being heard), a battery should last 6
        in-game days.
  - While transmitting, a battery should last 2 in-game days.
  - VHF handhelds, when receiving a signal within its range, will receive
    muffled static (opposed to the contents of the transmission):
      -  In a player's hand
      - In a player's offhand
      - In a Curios API belt slot
      - In a curios API chest slot
  - When a VHF handheld is up to 50 blocks past its range,
    interference will play as well as the voice signal (static sounds).
    This is different from HF radios where the volume will decrease
    independently of static.

![](Pictures/10000001000000E90000007BD5563A1B.png)

- VHF Base Station (1): The VHF Base station is a placeable radio. These
  radios will have a limited range of 500 blocks from the antenna
  connected to it. This is reduced to 400 blocks under Y=80, and 80
  blocks under y=0 (measurement is taken from the base of the antenna).
  The recipe for the VHF base station will require 3 iron, 1 hand-mic, 1
  radio crystal, 1 speaker, 1 wire, and 2 wood planks of any type.
  - Note: All non-vanilla textures are placeholders.
  - When right clicked, an interface will open. Reference the "Base
  Station Interface and power" section for specifics.
  - VHF Base station radios use half the power of HF stations (and 5x the
  power of QRP stations).
  - VHF Base Stations and VHF Handhelds are compatible with each other.
  When they are communicating with each other, their range is averaged
  at 450 blocks (or 70 blocks under y=0).

![](Pictures/100000010000011300000092DFA09042.png)

- VHF Repeater: VHF repeaters are placeable radios designed to repeat
  what they receive on a different frequency. This can be used to
  effectively double the range of handhelds and base stations. VHF
  Repeaters have the same range as VHF base stations, and require 1.5x
  the power of a base station. The recipe for the repeater is 4 iron, an
  iron trapdoor, 1 Netherite Ingot, 1 VHF Base Station, 1 radio crystal,
  and 1 wire.
  - Note: All non-vanilla textures are placeholders
  - Repeaters prompt the players for a callsign when they are created. The
    callsign will have a pattern of X#XX, where X is a player-given
    letter, and \# is a number that represents how far away the repeater
    is from spawn, where 0 is near spawn and 9 is near the world boarder.
  - By default, repeaters are in a "sleep" state. They are woken from
    their sleep state by a player transmitting on the repater's input
    frequency within an averaged range. It repeats this transmission on
    its output frequency (to be heard by radios within range) as it is
    received. Once the transmission is done, it adds the repeater's
    callsign in Morse. After 10 minutes, it will transmit the repeater's
    callsign again, unless it is actively repeating a transmission, at
    which point it will wait until that transmission is done. This cycle
    repeats until the repeater has had no activity for 10 minutes after
    it's last time sending its callsign, at which point it will send the
    callsign once more and go into sleep mode, no longer transmitting
    anything until it is woken again.

![](Pictures/10000001000000F10000007F0081C3B5.png)

- VHF Receiver: A VHF receiver is a placeable radio with no transmit
  capabilities. It requires much less power than transceivers (radios
  that transmit and receive). The recipe uses 3 iron ingots, 2 planks of
  any type, 1 gold ingot, 2 wire, and a speaker as follows:
  - Note: All non-vanilla textures are placeholders
  - VHF receivers can be tuned to specific frequencies or can be set to
    scan up to 4 frequencies at once. When receiving on one of the
    frequencies it is set to scan, the matching number "light" on it will
    illuminate. See Design & Style for more information.

![](Pictures/10000001000000EA0000007C2232BEB1.png)

- 10m HF Radio (1): The 10m HF Radio is the highest frequency HF radio,
  and as such has the lowest range (other than VHF radios) by default.
  It is a placeable block that can be interacted with by the player. The
  10m HF radio has a full-strength range of 900 blocks. Past 900 blocks,
  the volume of the received signal is reduced by 10% every 100 blocks.
  If the antenna attached to the radio is under y=0, the range is 100
  blocks. 10m radios have a recipe that uses 3 gold, 1 hand-mic, 1 radio
  crystal, 1 speaker, 1 wire, and 2 wood planks of any type.
  - Note: All non-vanilla textures are placeholders
  - 10m radios can also be affected by random propagation events, which
    are discussed later on in this presentation.

![](Pictures/10000001000000F00000007F35953F9D.png)

- 20m HF Radio (1): The 20m HF Radio is a transmitting and receiving
  radio that provides decent long range communication during the day via
  propagation, but little local communication and poor communication at
  night. The recipe for a 20m HF Radio uses 3 nettherite scraps, 1 wire,
  1 radio crystal, 1 tinted glass, 1 HF Circuit Board and 2 iron as
  follows:
  - Note: All non-vanilla textures are placeholders

![](Pictures/10000001000001E400000100FE932CB9.png)

- 40m HF Radio (1): The 40m HF Radio is a transmitting and receiving
  radio that provides good long-range communication during the night via
  propagation, good local communication, and poor propagation during the
  day. The recipe for the 40m HF Radio will utilize 2 netherite scraps,
  1 netherite ingot, 1 wire, one radio crystal, 1 tinted glass, 2 iron,
  and one HF Circuit Board as follows:
  - Note: All non-vanilla textures are placeholders

![](Pictures/10000001000001E4000001007F460F7C.png)

- 80m HF Radio (1): The 80m HF Radio that provides decent long-range
  communication. At night, its range is about 25% greater than during
  the day. The 80m radio has no skip zone, meaning there is no area of
  no coverage between its local and long range communication range. The
  recipe for the 80m HF Radio uses 3 netherite ingots, 1 wire, 1 radio
  crystal, 1 tinted glass, 2 iron, and 1 HF circuit board as follows:
  - Note: All non-vanilla textures are placeholders

![](Pictures/10000001000001E400000100278D8EF5.png)


- HF Receiver (2): An HF receiver is a placeable radio with no transmit
  capabilities. It requires much less power than transceivers (radios
  that transmit and receive). It can receive on all the HF bands. The
  recipe uses 4 iron ingots, 1 netherrite scrap, 2 wire, a lightning
  rod, and a speaker as follows:
  - Note: All non-vanilla textures are placeholders
  - HF receivers can be tuned to specific frequencies or can be set to
    scan up to 4 frequencies at once. When receiving one of the
    frequencies it is set to receive, it does not scan the other
    frequencies until there is nothing on the current one.

- ![](Pictures/10000001000001E400000100CA1CCA3C.png)

- All Band Radio (2): The all-band radio is exactly what it sounds like.
  It is a radio that can work on all of the HF bands and the VHF band.
  It takes up two blocks in width instead of one. It has two antenna
  outputs instead of one. The first is dedicated to VHF, the second is
  for all the HF bands (ideally a player will use a coax switch to use
  it with multiple antennas).
  - The all-band radio is crafted by putting all the HF radios and a VHF
    radio in the crafting table.
- QRP 40m Radio (2): QRP radios are low-power radios. In this mod, QRP
  radios can run off very little power, but are limited to 10w of power.
- QRP 20m Radio (2): QRP radios are low-power radios. In this mod, QRP
  radios can run off very little power, but are limited to 10w of power.
- Radio Range Quick Table
  - Radio range varies based on the band (and therefore the radio). The
    radio's range is also altered depending on the antenna, and most
    importantly, the antenna's height:

 | Band / Radio Name             | Base Line of Sight Range | Base Skip Range Day (Blocks) | Base Skip Range Night (Blocks) |
|-------------------------------|--------------------------|------------------------------|--------------------------------|
 | VHF HT                        | 300                      | None                         | None                           |
 | VHF Base Station (& Repeater) | 500                      | None                         | None                           |
 | 10m Radio                     | 800                      | Special                      | Special                        |
 | 20m Radio                     | 300                      | 2,000-6,000                  | 800-1,000                      |
 | 40m Radio                     | 900                      | 1,000-1,100                  | 1,000-3,000                    |
  | 80m Radio                     | 600                      | 700-800                      | 600-2,000                      |

## Antennas & Antenna Components

For Antenna resonance / functionality, see the "Events & Functionality"
section.

- Antenna Pole (1): Antenna poles are used to make vertical antennas.
  Each antenna pole is 1 "meter" in length. Antenna poles must be placed
  on antenna pole mounts and cannot be stacked more than 10 blocks tall.
  The recipe uses 2 iron ingots and 1 wire as follows:

![](Pictures/10000001000001E400000100DFB3DD77.png)

- Duplexer (1): Duplexers are required for use with repeaters. Duplexers
  require 6 iron ingots, 2 lightning rods, and 1 Netherite ingot.
  - Note: All non-vanilla textures are placeholders.

![](Pictures/10000001000000E500000079DB3FBFD8.png)

- Antenna Tuner (1): Antenna tuners are blocks that can be placed along
  the coax between the radio and the antenna (before any baluns, i.e.,
  it should be Radio -\> Tuner -\> Anything else). This block allows
  players to use antennas that are off-resonance with their radio.
  However, the more off-resonance the antenna is, the more efficiency /
  power is lost. The recipe for the Antenna tuner uses 6 wire, a
  lighting rod, one netherrite scrap, and one emerald.

![](Pictures/10000001000001E4000001005EE6B4E3.png)

- Antenna Analyzer (2): The antenna analyzer is a holdable item that,
  when right-clicked on a piece of coax cable (the cables that connect
  antennas to radios), will tell the player what band the antenna is
  resonant or close to resonant to.
  - For example, a 20m dipole antenna (see antenna resonance in Events &
    Functionality) has 5 meters of wire both left and right of the balun
    (a placeable block that connects the antenna wires to each other and a
    coax cable). If the player had 5 meters of wire on one side and 4
    meters of wire on the other, the analyzer would say it is "Near
    Resonant to the 20m band" and that it is "too short."
  - The recipe for this item is tbd

## Events & Functionality

#### Callsigns:

A player's callsign is their unique identifier on the
  radio. When a player first interacts with a radio, if they do not have
  a callsign set to their player, the prompt to select a callsign will
  be given to them.


- Players can choose any callsign following the following format:\
  !@#!@@ where:
  - ! - a required capital letter
  - @ - an optional capital letter
  - \# - a number 0-9 (The server config allows admins to choose which
    numbers 0-9 are available to choose from)
- If the callsign is taken, they will not be able to apply it.
- In the server config, mods can also set it so that players cannot
  choose their own callsigns, and instead must get them from server
  operators.

#### Averaged Mixed Range:

When two devices that are compatible with each
  other have different effective ranges (such as with handheld vs base
  station vhf radios, or with two radios that have different performing
  antennas), the performance will be averaged out.

#### Coax Cable:

Coax cable is a wire that can carry radio signals to
  baluns, tuners, and antennas. 

#### Antenna Resonance:
Antennas must be resonant on the frequency they
  match with, otherwise the radio will not work. A tuner can bring an
  antenna that is close to resonance, to resonance. This is a heavy
  oversimplification for the purpose of limiting the scope of this mod.
  In future development, multi-band antennas may be added. Resonance is
  calculated based on how many "meters" an antenna is compared to how
  many "meters" a radio is. This is based on real life, where
  frequencies have a "wavelength" measured in meters. The different
  bands are called 20m, 40m, 80m, etc because of the length of that
  wave.

- As a reminder, while some of the antennas on the list are made with
  "antenna pole," most of them are made with "antenna wire" which is
  wire that typically runs in the air across the x and z (flat) plane of
  the world. Here is a table representing the length of different
  antenna types:

| Antenna                   | Construction / Design                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Performance                                                                                                                        |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Dipole Antenna (1)        | Antenna has two legs with a 1:1 balun at the center. Coax connects on the bottom (think of a T). Each leg is 1/4 wavelength, total length is 1/2 wavelength.                                                                                                                                                             | Good propagation and local performance. The standard antenna.                                                                      |
| End Fed Half Wave (1)     | Basically a dipole but fed on the end instead of in the center. Total length is 1/2 wavelength (requires 49:1 balun -> 1:1 balun -> radio).                                                                                                                                                                              | About 25% worse than a dipole.                                                                                                     |
| Inverted V Dipole (1)     | Dipole but the two ends are lower than the center. Easier to put up. Overall length should be 5% shorter. For 20m and 10m, no difference in length is required. 40m always will require a tuner since it will be a bit too short or too long. 80m will require one less meter on each leg.                               | 20m and 10m are 10% worse than a dipole, 40m is 25% worse than a dipole, 80m is 10% worse than a dipole.                           |
| Random Wire (1)           | Requires a tuner, efficiency is reduced the further away it is from a multiple of whatever band the player is trying to use. This is handled as if the power is being reduced. Works on all bands as long as the wire is at least 1/2 wavelength of the frequency in question. Requires 9:1 balun -> 1:1 balun -> radio. | Varies greatly, typically at least 50% the propagation range of a dipole.                                                          |
| Yagi Antenna (2)          | Crafted for resonance on a band. No manual player building.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Directional. 100% more range but only in one direction. 10% of the range to the rear and left and right.                           |
| Delta Loop Antenna (1)    | Triangle built at ground level. Each side of the triangle is 1/3 a wavelength. Coax is connected at a corner. Must be at least 4 meters above ground. Must go to 4:1 balun.                                                                                                                                              | 10% of the local communication, but 50% better long range communication.                                                           |
| Quarter Wave Vertical (1) | Vertical antenna made of antenna pole. Pole height should be 1/4 of the wavelength (i.e. 20m quarter wave antenna would be 5 blocks tall). 3 block tall antenna pole counts as a 1/4 wave antenna for 10m.                                                                                                               | 20% better local communication, but 30% worse long-range communication. Attracts lightning like a lightning rod.                   |
| VHF Moxon Antenna (1)     | Craftable rectangular antenna. Stands vertically and is one meter tall.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Directional in the direction it is facing. 50% more range but only in one direction. 15% of the range in the other directions.     |
| 10m Moxon Antenna (1)     | Antenna is a rectangle made with antenna wire. Dimensions are 3x1. Stands horizontal.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 50% more range but only in one direction. 15% of the range in the other directions.                                                |
| 20m Moxon Antenna (1)     | Antenna is a rectangle made with antenna wire. Dimensions are 7x3. Stands horizontal.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 50% more range but only in one direction. 15% of the range in the other directions.                                                |
| J-Pole Antenna (1)        | Craftable antenna for VHF only. 1 block tall.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Provides 30% increase in VHF range.                                                                                                |
| Slim jim antenna (1)      | Craftable antenna for VHF only. 1 block tall. Can be attached to the bottom of a block (including glass and leaves). Does not require an isolator/connector or pole antenna mount.                                                                                                                                       | Provides 20% increase in VHF range. Does not work in thunderstorms (to replicate how wind would make it hard to use in real life). |
| Wide Band Receive         | An oversimplification of coil-inducted and wide-band receive antennas. This antenna can be used to receive on all the bands, albeit somewhat poorly. Cannot be used to transmit on any band. Constructed with two antenna poles, then 3 iron bars going one way and 3 going the other (this is the cover photo).         | 70% efficient on VHF. 50% efficient on 10m. 30% efficient on 20m. 20% efficient on 40m. 20% efficient on 80m.                      |


#### SWR (2):
SWR stands for "standing wave ratio," and in real life is a
  way of measuring how well a signal is going into an antenna by
  measuring the power reflected back from the antenna down the coax
  cable. The closer to 1.0 the better. Anything above 3 is considered a
  bit unsafe for the radio.

- In this mod, SWR will not be measurable, at least not for the initial
  release. Instead, if an antenna is not resonant by a significant
  amount, it will have a chance to set the radio on fire. The further
  off-resonance an antenna is, the higher the chance of it catching
  fire.
- If a radio's antenna is off-resonance by a very large amount, the
  block will be destroyed, replaced by fire.

#### Radio Static (1):
Radio static is a pre-recorded audio file of static
  that is played on all radios other than VHF radios.

- By default, when any HF radio is on, static can be heard. Static when
  no transmission is coming through can be disabled in the server
  config.
- When a transmission is coming in, the static's volume will be slightly
  increased. If the antenna attached to the radio doesn't have a ground
  connection (with an exception for ground-exempt antennas), the
  static's volume will be increased by 20% (see antenna grounding in the
  "Antennas" section).
- Past a radio / band's full-strength range, the volume of the signal
  from the radio (be it voice or morse), is reduced by 10% every certain
  number of blocks. The signal will then be drowned out by the static if
  it is weak enough.
- When lightning strikes, static increases in volume to 40% for a
  second.
- If no antenna is connected, there will be no static.

#### Repeater Setup (1):
Repeaters need to have an input and output
  frequency set. Handheld and base VHF stations will then set their
  frequencies to the radio's output frequency and use the "Duplex /
  Repeater" menu to set the radio's input frequency.

- Hardware wise, repeaters require a duplexer between the radio and the
  antenna. In the real world, this allows repeaters to transmit and
  receive using the same antenna.
- If the player attempts to use a repeater with no duplexer, feedback
  will be transmitted for 2 seconds before the repeater turns off.
- In total, repeaters require:
  - Power
  - A line going from the repeater to the duplexer
  - A line going from the duplexer to an antenna


#### VHF Radios (1):

VHF (Very High Frequency) radios perform differently
  than HF radio. They are line-of-sight only, meaning they are not for
  long range.

- VHF radios use a "line of sight" (LoS) system to determine their
  range. Their range is exponentially increased as the antenna's height
  is raised. An example formula for this:

```js
const VHFRange = baseRange ^ heightExponent

// where the exponent could maybe be calculated like

//still assuming 64 is sea level and they haven't changed that
if (height < 62) {
    heightExponent = height / 100
    //these values are very pre-height-changes
} else if (height > 62 && height < 200) {
    //base range at sea level
    heightExponent = height / 100 + 0.36 
} else if (height > 200) {
//stop giving a boost above 200 blocks
    heightExponnent = 2.36 
}
```

These values will have to be fine tuned to be reasonable. This formula
should work out so that VHF Base Stations and Repeaters should both have
a range of 100 blocks at Y=62, and 600 blocks at Y=200. Past 200 blocks
there is no difference.

Handhelds should have a range of 40 blocks y=62 and 200 blocks at y=200.
These values should be configurable in the server config.

- HF LoS (1): HF radios also use a Line-of-Sight calculation for their
  LoS range as suggested in the "Radio Range Quick Table" on page
  \[PAGE\]
- 10m Radios (1): 10m radios are in a unique space in this mod. They are
  basically low-bandwidth (reduced transfer speed) longer-range VHF
  radios (using the LoS formula) except for when the conditions are
  right and it will propagate. This means that they can be useful when
  VHF radios aren't quite long-range enough, but they are also a great
  tool to increase speed when the band conditions are good.


#### Propagation Events (2):
In real life, propagation is how radio waves
  propagate in the ionosphere and reflect around the world. Propagation
  changes based on solar weather and is random as to how well it will
  work with radio. Different bands perform differently based on these
  conditions. In this mod, propagation is heavily simplified and
  simulated with random events to make development easier.

- By default, propagation is at a "standard" level, where the basic
  range of HF radios will be at their default state as set in the
  "Radios" section.
- Geomagnetic storms increase the static / noise floor on HF radios. The
  following table represents propagation:

| Propagation Event | Description                          | Performance Effect                           | Rarity                                         | Extra                                               |
|-------------------|--------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
 | Blackout          | Extreme interference                 | No HF Propagation. Noise floor is very high. | Very Rare - Lasts up to 3 minecraft days - 5%  | Signal strength lights up randomly once and a while |
 | Poor              | Only strong contacts.                | Noise Floor 70%                              | Rare - 10% Lasts for at least 2 minecraft days |                                                     |
 | Fair              | Useable especially for morse         | Noise Floor 50%                              | Common - 20%                                   |                                                     |
 | Average           | Standard conditions                  | Noise Floor 30%                              | Very Common - 35%                              |                                                     |
 | Good              | Above average clarity                | Noise floor 20%                              | Common - 20%                                   | 10m band has some limited propagation.              |
 | Great             | Very good clarity. All HF bands have | Noise floor 10%                              | Rare - %10                                     | 10m band has some limited propagation.              |

- Sporadic E: Sporadic E is a propagation event that allows limited VHF
  propagation. When the propagation conditions are "Fair" or better,
  there is a 5% chance that VHF propagation will open, allowing
  long-range communication over VHF. This will last up to one minecraft
  day.

#### Voice Mode (1)

- All radios have a voice mode for voice communication. In the UI for
  10m-80m radios, it is labeled as "SSB." On VHF radios it is labeled as
  "FM."
- Voice mode uses the client's microphone which can be selected and has
  basic volume control

#### CW (Morse Code) Mode (1)

- Morse code has 25% more range (this simulates that in real life, morse
  code is much more efficient and travels further).
- Morse code mode uses morse code and does not use the player's
  microphone. Morse code is controlled in the radio UI. There are two
  modes, configurable in the server-config. These are "True Morse" and
  "Morse Chat."
  - True Morse (1): In the radio's UI, morse is controlled with a single
    button on the screen, as well as with the "Alt" key on the keyboard.
    It simply transmits a tone when the button or key is pressed.
  - Chat Morse (1): In the radio's UI, morse can still be sent by hand
    with the "Alt" key, but the on-screen button opens a chat session.
    Text is sent in time with the real morse code counterpart being played
    over the radio.

#### TNC / Digital Interface (2)
The TNC / Digital interface is a block that can be placed next to any
    radio, must be on top of a printer block. When a radio next to it is
    on, it can be right clicked to open the TNC UI. The TNC is by default
    set to have the callsign of the player. The TNC allows players to do
    the following with another player over the radio:

- Fast text-communication (called RTTY Chat)
  - Real-time communication. Most of the specifics are in the Digital
    Interface section of UI Design.
  - Consumes 1 paper from the printer block below it for every 20 messages
- Send / receive maps over radio (Called SSTV)
  - Send a map over the radio.
  - Consumes 1 map from the printer inventory.
- Send /receive Books and paper over radio (Book or named paper, retains
  any name / tooltips /lore) (Called File Transmit)
  - Consumes 1 book or paper
  - Does not work with enchanting books (to avoid duplication)
- APRS Coordinates
  - Can include a brief message of up to 30 letters.
  - Allows the player to beacon the coordinates of their station.
  - Can also be triggered by a redstone signal.
  - Stations with TNCs and paper with their radio on the same frequency
    can view a list of the last 20 received beacons at any time. It will
    show as: Callsign: X, Y, Z \| Message
  - Does not consume anything. Does not require a printer block.
  - When there is more than one radio adjacent to the TNC, upon receiving
    an APRS packet, it will wait 1 second, then repeat the APRS "packet"
    to other radios. For example, W1BTR sends out a packet from his VHF
    radio at 144.390 MHz. Another VHF radio with a TNC receives it. There
    is an HF radio adjacent to the TNC. It will re-transmit the APRS
    message on that HF frequency.
  - The TNC will not digipeat a message it has already received.
- APRS Messages
  - A message that can be directed to another callsign.
  - Uses the same digipeater technology that the APRS coordinates system
    uses, so that it can repeat the message until all stations within
    range of each other have repeated it.
  - When there is a TNC that has the matching callsign of the set
    recipient, the TNC will buzz once and flash a red light until a player
    opens the APRS Messages section and sees the message.
- When doing these things they will play digital communication sounds
  over the radio. For the specific sounds, see the Design, Style & Sound
  Section

# Commands

## Admin commands:

```
/callsign reset player playername
```
Resets the player's callsign as if they had never set one.
```
/callsign assign player PlayerName callsign Callsign
```
Allows admins to set a new callsign for a player. Can override the
server config for allowed callsigns. Can also be longer than the normal
callsign after the number, for example `N1HEROBRINE`.

```
/bandcalculate x,z x,z
```

Allows an admin to calculate the best band to use to talk
between two points instead of using a solar weather station. Instant.
```
/APRS beacon Frequency Callsign Message
```
Beacons the admin or command block's current position using the
callsign set. Received by all TNCs on the same frequency regardless of
range.

"All" can be used instead of a specific frequency for all TNCs
to receive.

```
/APRS broadcast Frequency TargetCallsign Message
```
Allows admins (or command blocks) to send an APRS message to a
player. Ignores range and is received by all TNCs. Does not digipeat.

"All" can be used instead of a specific frequency for all TNCs
to receive it, assuming the callsign matches, regardless of frequency.

"All" can be used instead of a callsign for all players to get
the message.

## Player Commands:

```
/callsign get player PlayerName
```
Get the callsign of a player
```
/callsign get callsign Callsign
```
Get the player name of a callsign
```
/callsign
```
Tells the player their callsign
```
/callsign list
```
Lists all callsigns and their matching player names.

# Config

The config file is also discussed throughout the document, but this area
acts as a spot to have these notes in one area.

The config file will have the following variables / settings
configurable:

- Enable and Disable the "[Modern
  Variant](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.4loywp5o7ogg)"
  (default enabled)
- What numbers 0-9 are available in callsigns (see [Events &
  Functionality](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.rxsi9gv9oq4u))
  (default all)
- Set whether players can set their own callsign (default yes)
- Whether some static is heard when an HF radio is on but not receiving
  (default yes). This config is called "HF Static Squelch"
- Line-of-Sight and Propagation range settings for all radios (see
  defaults in X section)
- Geomagnetic Storms enabled or disabled (default yes)
- True Morse Vs Chat Morse (default Chat Morse) (see [Events &
  Functionality](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.rxsi9gv9oq4u)).
- All radios will have a toggleable "talk everywhere" option that gives
  them infinite range. By default, these are all set to be disabled.

# Design, Style, & Sound

## Vintage & Modern Radios

There are 7 total radios, each with a unique design. However, there will
be 14 textures total, as each radio will have a "modern" and "vintage"
variant. The vintage variant is the default.

Both the vintage and modern variants perform identically, and only
differ in appearance. In the server config, the modern variant can be
disabled entirely. The modern variants are part of the secondary
development stack.

## Design Inspiration

### Existing Mod Inspiration

The design of this mod is to take a vanilla+ approach. Textures will be
simplified and should not look too out-of-place for the game. Take a
look at these example textures from the "Create" mod:

![](Pictures/10000000000006400000035CF14EA71E.png)
![](Pictures/100000000000064000000350A6011742.png)
![](Pictures/10000001000001AC000001AC8555123A.png)
![](Pictures/1000000100000200000002000B94E2FE.png)
![](Pictures/100000010000020000000200D2DDE764.png)

Notice the size and depth of the blocks. They still take up an entire
block of space for the most part, but add complexity by shrinking
aspects of the texture. All of the radios should be modeled in 3D. Each
radio will have a single light to indicate the radio is on, and then 5
lights to indicate receive strength as well as transmit power when
transmitting.

We are specifically trying to avoid the out-of-place feel for many
technology mods, where the textures don't seem to fit the existing
texture base.

![](Pictures/10000000000002EE000001A6C6E07B97.png)

![](Pictures/10000000000002A8000001769B9D25FB.png)

Nothing against these mods, as those designs are exactly what many
players are looking for with what features the mods add, however it is
not the look we are aiming for in this project.

### Vintage Radio Inspiration

The following radios show the era and style of radios we want to focus
on for the vintage radios for HF radios:

![](Pictures/10000000000001F4000000EC3F88E7C4.png)

Swan 350

![](Pictures/10000001000003180000018BC6E2DD19.png)

Heathkit SB-101

![](Pictures/10000000000003E8000001BEC7550217.png)

Icom IC-751A

![](Pictures/10000000000003E800000247D468C31D.png)

Heathkit SB-104A

![](Pictures/10000000000004060000038681A86354.png)

Collins R-390A/URR RECEIVER

The following radios show the erra and style of radios we want to focus
on for the vintage radios for VHF radios:

![](Pictures/10000000000001F40000013F7EB8B751.png)

Azden PCS-2000

![](Pictures/1000000000000640000004B0271A5254.png)

ICOM IC-22U

![](Pictures/1000000000000640000004B0A84A9696.png)

ICOM IC-25A

![](Pictures/10000000000005A00000043834A72717.jpg)

Gonset Communications VHF radio

![](Pictures/1000000000000640000004B0F9FB4F1E.png)

Yaesu Memorizer

![](Pictures/10000000000004B0000006403E766B30.png)

ICOM 02-AT HT

![](Pictures/1000000000000640000004B02761D05D.png)

Yaesu FT-470 HT

![](Pictures/10000000000003AB000002528B4E117C.png)

HALLICRAFTERS SX-100 VHF Receiver

![](Pictures/100000000000064000000441689FDFD9.png)

Spectrum Communications VHF Repeater

This radio is cool enough, just straight up copy it.

The rear texture of each radio should have 3 wires going down to the
base of the radio. One thick wire, one in between, and one thin. This is
supposed to represent the antenna coax cable, the power cable, and a
cable for a TNC interface. Other design elements can be added too.

## Vintage Radio Design Elements

Vintage HF Radios should have a single light to indicate the radio is
on, and then 5 lights to indicate receive strength as well as transmit
power when transmitting. They should all have a couple of buttons, one
big tuning wheel, and some other small potentiometers. None of these
will be functional, of course.

Note that most of these radios pictured are multi-band radios. For this
mod, each radio (other than the all-band radio) will only work on a
single band. Each band will have its own single radio with a unique
design, inspired from the photos above.

Some may have illuminated dials Heathkit and Swan radios, and some might
have digital number displays. If it is simple to do so, having a working
display to show the frequency, and a dial that shows some of the number
would be great and add some depth to the mod, but if this is difficult
to implement it should be pushed further down the roadmap.

For radios with dials, they should appear to glow and be illuminated
when powered on.

## Radio Sizing

![](Pictures/10000001000006090000029BF2C1C9B9.png)

![](Pictures/10000001000006090000029BEAEAE0DE.png)

Maybe a bit smaller than that?

The VHF Repeater will take up 4 blocks of space as opposed to one:

![](Pictures/1000000100000462000001BF53FDC12E.png)

## Misc Block Design:

## UI Design

Again, the design should follow a similar mood to the create mod. It
should look very vintage.

### Radio Interface

When a player right clicks a radio, the UI will open where they can
select the following:

- Power On/ Off
- Frequency (and band if multiband radio)
- Mode
- Power output
- PTT (push to talk / transmit)
- Morse code key / chat (HF only)
- Config button to open the config and set microphone from PC
- Volume Control

It will also display the signal strength of any received transmission,
which will instead show output power when transmitting.

### Repeater Interface

When a player right clicks a VHF repeater, the UI should allow the
player to enter the following:

- Repeater Power On/Off
- Repeater Transmit On/Off
- Input Frequency
- Output Frequency
- Repeater Callsign
- Speaker Volume (for local listening)
- PTT (for talking directly into the repeater)
- Antenna Switch (for switching between an optional second antenna)

### Solar Weather Station

The solar weather station is a placeable block that, when right clicked,
allows the player to "Print Weather Report" and see:

- Current solar weather (shown as Great / Good / Average / Poor /
  Blackout)
- Whether the 10m band is open to propagation.

When the player presses "print a report" the station's UI will have a
flashing "Loading" light, then a dot-matrix style paper will slide up
and show the report. When the player closes the UI, they will be given
the report in their inventory which they can right click to view.

There will also be an option to calculate the best band to use between
two locations.

The player will have an area to enter two sets of X and Z coordinates,
then they can press the "Print Communication Report" button. This will
take a moment to load before displaying the following info on a
dot-matrix style paper:

- The two coordinates
- The distance between the two coordinates
- Whether the communication is North to South, East to West, Northeast
  to Southwest, etc
- What bands will allow communication between the two points with a
  standard dipole
- If no band would work, what band is closest

When the player closes the UI, they will be given the report in their
inventory which they can right click to view.

### Digital Interface (TNC)

The digital interface (TNC) block can be placed next to any radio. On
the main page of the UI it will show if it is receiving anything and if
so, what mode. Clicking on it will bring them to the proper section. On
the main page, a player can see the callsign the TNC is set to. They can
"Claim" it to set it to their callsign. They can also override the
callsign to set it to a unique callsign for just that station, but there
will be a note showing what player set it. The UI will have three
sections:

1.  RTTY - quick text chat

- Like a chat room. The screen displays a dot-matrix paper. When the
  player types, it will transmit their message over the radio
  simultaneously typing "TheirCallsign: Message" in real time.
  Dot-matrix printer sounds will play as well as the sound of a RTTY
  transmission (audio file will be provided for developer by the
  client). Requires paper to be in the printer's inventory.

2.  File Transfer

- Allows players to send paper and books to each other. Has a slot where
  a player can place one item from their inventory to send.

3.  SSTV

- Allows players to send maps to each other. Has a slot for a player to
  send the item.

4.  APRS Coordinates

- Allows a player to press the "Beacon" button, and it will transmit the
  radio's location.
- Below that, shows a scrollable list of the last 20 received beacons on
  dot-matrix style paper
- If a radio is tuned to the frequency of the message and does not have
  a TNC connected, the sound of a single packet burst will play (see
  [https://www.sigidwiki.com/wiki/PACKET](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.sigidwiki.com/wiki/PACKET&sa=D&source=editors&ust=1758319322792774&usg=AOvVaw0J2XOjHF9ES1vcukR790_e) for
  sound examples). If the TNC is connected, no sound will be heard.

5.  APRS Messages

- Allows players to send each other messages over the APRS network.
- Has one entry box for the callsign to send it to, and another for a
  message of up to 100 characters.
- When a TNC has received a message that matches its callsign, it will
  flash a blue light until a player views its messages.
- Below that, shows a scrollable list of the last 20 received messages
  on dot-matrix style paper.
- If a radio is tuned to the frequency of the message and does not have
  a TNC connected, the sound of a single packet burst will play (see
  [https://www.sigidwiki.com/wiki/PACKET](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.sigidwiki.com/wiki/PACKET&sa=D&source=editors&ust=1758319322794268&usg=AOvVaw3DeTv6vWnrfCe5LAvCPgUu) for
  sound examples). If the TNC is connected, no sound will be heard.

# Completed Work

This section aims to document the work already completed on this
project. It will be updated live in the google doc and can be seen at
mcmod.w1btr.com

| Work Completed                                                                                                                                                       | Date Completed |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|
| Prospective Developers Found                                                                                                                                         | 10/20/2022     |
| VOIP Protocol Completed (existing API)                                                                                                                               | 10/22/2022     |
| - The mod "simple-voice-chat" provides proximity chat to the game. This mod has an open api and supports great features such as channelization and raw audio access! |                |
| - This mod will be used as the basis for our VOIP protocol and seriously reduced the expected workload.                                                              |                |
| - The developers of the mod have offered to add any features we need in the future.                                                                                  |                |
| ARRL Grant Request Submitted                                                                                                                                         | 10/26/2022     |
| ARDC Grant Request Submitted                                                                                                                                         | 10/27/2022     |

# Development Timeline

The functional development of this mod will be separated into three
chunks.

1.  Primary Development: Primary development will be the initial process
    of development. This will be a conclusive proof-of-concept and, for
    all intents and purposes, a fully functioning (albeit incomplete)
    mod.
2.  Secondary Development: Secondary development will be part two of the
    development process. It will consist of fleshing out the features
    and content within the mod.
3.  Future Development: The Future stack holds features and ideas that
    are not expected to be implemented before the first release, but are
    advanced features that might be added as expansions in a future
    release.

\* means it has not been written about here yet.

## Primary Development:

- VHF Radios
- HF Radios
- Coax
- Antenna Wires
- Tuners
- VHF LoS
- HF LoS
- HF Skip Zone and Propagation
- Static / Noise Floor
- Solar Storms Affect HF Noise Floor
- Sending Items over radio
- VHF Poll antenna
- VHF J-Pole
- VHF Yagi
- VHF Slim-Jim
- HF End-Fed
- HF Dipole
- HF Inverted V Dipole
- HF Loop
- ¼ wave
- HF Mangnetic Loop
- HF YAGI

## Secondary Development:

- All Band Radio
- Antenna Analyzer (says what band an antenna is resonant on, and if it
isn\'t resonant, says what band its close too and if its too short or
too long) \*
- Poor Antenna match (SWR) damages the radio.
- Digital Interface TNC (Digital Modes)
- Recipes
- Solar Panels \*
- VHF Moxon
- HF Moxon
- Coax Switch \*
- Redstone Flux Usage and integration \*
- Batteries \*
- Mic block \*
- More HF Antennas?
- More VHF Antenna?
- Baluns & Chokes \*
- Grounding \*
- VOX hands free \*
- Callsign System
- VHF Repeaters
- Curios API Integration
- Weather Station & Coordinates Calculator\*
- APRS Position Reporting
- Direction Tracking Device\*
- Multiple Variants of each radio with their recipes\*
- Random Structures\*

## Future Development

- Radio Frequency interference with redstone :D
- Auto beacon block (can send morse code, aprs, or "encrypted"
(encrypted is just noise interference on a specific frequency and is not
useful to the player).
- Randomly generated structures with automatically beaconing radios and
radio-related loot
- chance that outposts will have auto beaconing radios on them
- APRS \"DIS\" Discord Bot Integration
- API for interfacing with real radios
- Option for community to add their own design variants
- Sag physics for antenna wire and cable (appearance only)

# Funding and Payment

## Cost Analysis

The projected cost of the project is separated by the different waves of
funding.

The [primary
development](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.i63010pncxat) is
expected to consist of 150-250 hours of development time. The [secondary
development](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQd1fckIrMKPCIMzikjnUJXj8BcSUgornQIC97nqVmv2SQJ25S-z2kYKaAMlZRcO88ntJBxjRx0q2nM/pub#h.azsdqe2k348i) is
expected to consist of 100-200 hours. The future development will depend
on the first two waves of development and requires some outside experts.
That is why it is labeled as "future development" as opposed to third
development or something along those lines.

The quotes and estimates we've gotten fall within the average for java
developers, ranging from \$40-\$50 / hour. As such, the total expected
cost ranges from \$20,000-\$30,000

## Funding

We plan to gain funding from grants from ham radio based non-profits, as
well as through a go-fund-me depending on the initial grant process.

## Payment

All funds will be used to pay for developers, designers, and any other
fees necessary to complete and upload the mod to the proper websites.

The club that this project is tied to, that is, the PART of Westford
WB1GOF club, is not a registered non-profit organization. It is not
incorporated in any way.

The payment to the developers will still need to be figured out. Whether
it will be paid directly to the developers, or whether the developers
can handle that cost in their setup, will need to be determined down the
road.